Things look like they're going from bad
to worse for London's IPO market. In
2006, more than $50 billion was raised
during initial public offerings, but in
2024,
>> you can see that it is relatively
healthy and then it [music] just drops
off.
>> Particularly since 2008, we've seen a
fall in about 40% of the number of
companies listed in the UK.
>> The first half of 2025 has been the
worst for IPOs since 1998. And that
sounds terrible. London falls out of top
20 IPO markets as fundraising slumps
69%. In the global rankings, the UK is
now all the way down here. And this is
just one of a string of factors
undermining London's more than
300year-old exchange.
A few green shoots have begun to sprout
under London's trading floor, but buried
beneath a financial malaise decades in
the making. This is a story important to
ordinary people as well as investors.
[music]
But just a heads up, it's not a happy
one. It's a shocker, isn't it? Really
is.
>> Before we explain the reasons for
London's death of them, it's worth a
quick primer on what an IPO actually is.
It's when a private company moves to a
public market, listing its shares on a
[music] stock exchange so the general
public or indeed anyone can buy shares
in that company. It is a moment where a
company [music] can either raise a whole
load of funds or shareholders can also
sell a chunk of their shares.
>> It provides public scrutiny of
companies. So it's a fundamentally
important key to democratic shareholder
capitalism. It shows that people around
the world want to put their money to
work in this [music] country, that they
trust the country's institutions.
>> A listed public company will tend to
pay, for example, more corporation tax
than a private company for all sorts of
reasons, but it's very good for the tax
infrastructure as [music] well, which of
course is vital to our public services
infrastructure.
>> It's also where people invest their cash
to grow. It's where some of their
pensions are invested.
>> The city of London stands for business.
The London Stock Exchange and the city
of London has been one of the biggest
drivers for the UK economy for many
years, for centuries. In fact, it was
where the world came to trade.
>> And around the 1800s, it gets its first
set of rules.
>> From the prosaic to do with settlements
and defaults to the surprising, like a
ban on explosive fireworks on the
trading floor.
Maybe that's why it became a bit of a
sleepy affair for 150 years or so until
the 1980s
>> where you have a massive bout of
privatization and deregulation [music]
and that turns the city of London from
what was a bit of a stayed sort of old
boys club.
>> You know, men are better doing this sort
of work
>> into a little bit more of a rocking
financial center. That is until the
point our story really begins around the
2008 financial crisis
>> which was a ultimately a banking bubble
and bust and London and New York were at
the heart of that together and London
crashed.
>> We have had bad years for [music] IPOs.
2003 was bad. 2009 was bad. 1992 was
also bad and they do coincide with
economic turmoil with uncertainty with
financial chaos. And then we get to
2022. [music] Interest rates have gone
up and everything's changed and there's
just this abyss. There are not the deals
coming to the table.
>> To understand the snowball effect this
can trigger, let's think of a stock
exchange as a bath with a reporter in it
because apparently Margot Robbie was
busy.
>> Like all good BS, there are rubber
ducks. These are initial public
offerings, companies coming to the
market. Now, on occasion, you will have
companies d-listing,
>> and normally that's okay. They're
probably being taken private through
mergers and acquisitions.
>> But the problem is in recent years,
because London listed companies are at
bargain basement prices, [music]
there has been a load of takeovers.
>> Over the last 20 years, UK companies
have consistently traded at a discount
to peers in other developed countries.
This line shows that in 2006 it was
around 15% compared to the average. But
recently it's been closer to 35% which
fueled the takeovers behind an exodus
from the London Stock Exchange. Which
brings us to liquidity. That's how easy
it is to buy and sell shares. If
liquidity is good, then the bath is warm
and full of water. And that means when
an investor buys a share, they know
they're going to be able to sell it
again. and that helps attract companies
to the market. But if liquidity starts
to drain out of the market and the bath
starts to lose its water, that looks
less attractive.
>> So companies start to look elsewhere.
And what do you know? New York looks
pretty good. There's more liquidity.
It's easier to trade. There's a ton of
investment,
>> meaning the London Stock Exchange
continues to shrink.
One of the things that has made the UK
market so incredibly lackluster over the
last couple of decades has been the
exodus [music] of domestic investors
from our own market. So that's been our
pension funds, our [music] wealth
managers and our ordinary retail
investors.
>> Steadily over the last 10 years, the US
stock market as a proportion of global
equities [music]
has risen something like 70% with Japan
coming in second at around 5% and the UK
third, believe it or not, at 3 [music]
12%. And then you've got the London
Stock Exchange missing out on some
really key IPOs. [music]
>> The Chinese clothing retailer Sheen was
meant to list in London but then [music]
couldn't.
>> But the biggest of all was Arm Holdings,
the British company whose semiconductor
designs underpin [music] almost every
mobile device on the planet.
>> It used to be listed in London. [music]
It got taken private and when they were
looking to list it again, they chose New
York.
>> They simply found it more appealing to
list on the NASDAQ.
One of the reasons why people might
choose to list in the US and it's partly
about valuation. You take your company,
you list it in the US and immediately
you will get an uplift in the valuation
of your shares.
>> A lot of it will depend [music] directly
on the company itself, on their own
dynamics, on whether they have good
future growth prospects.
>> But if the valuation does jump, each
share will be worth more. And [music] if
each share is worth more, then managers
remuneration will automatically be
higher given that most senior management
in big listed companies are on some kind
of pay deal that is connected to share
price. Executives in the UK are
generally paid significantly [music]
less than their peers in the US. And
when they do move abroad, their pay does
tend to go up and that is seen as key to
retaining talent.
>> And they are moving. Shareholders of the
tour [music] operator Tui have approved
ditching its secondary listing in the UK
in favor of focusing on Frankfurt.
>> Wise plans to transfer its primary
listing from the LSC to New York. A real
blow to London. Then perhaps [music]
>> we saw flutter. We've had CR. There's
been Ferguson and drug maker Astroenica,
the most valuable British company, said
it's planning a direct listing of
regular shares in New [music] York. That
is a real wakeup call for how urgently
the government needs to do something
about this.
>> Brexit.
>> There is reputational damage to the UK
over the last decade or so. That's
partly about Brexit which has put off a
lot of foreign investors, but it's also
postrexit about the feeling that there
is constant political chaos in the UK.
>> But them's the brakes. There has been a
mood music [music] around the economy
which has not been super positive for
quite a long time
and that doesn't help attract capital
into the UK. That's reflected in more
than just the stock market. [music]
Britain is particularly unattractive to
bond investors right now. The 30-year
yield on UK debt, which is what a bond
is, was coming down until 2020, but it
hit multi-deade highs this year. That
makes it expensive for the government to
borrow what it needs. It also gets money
from tax of course, but here too
investors are wary.
>> Stamp duty on shares in the UK is
charged at 0.5% of each transaction and
that is the highest in any major market.
Most major markets don't actually charge
snap duty at all.
>> Meanwhile, regulation is providing its
own roadblocks. The fact that so much
management time is [music] spent on
regulation, managing regulation,
managing compliance and not actually
managing the business is [music] often
cited as something that puts people off
horribly. The LSSE is seen as one of the
more stricter [music] exchanges for
governance. Now, in many ways, that's a
strength because it means that when
you're listed on the London Stock
Exchange, [music] it means something,
>> but in other ways, it's just a reason
not to bother when there are so many
other options. the private equity
[music] uh industry has soared and so
we've seen a lot of companies staying
private getting their money from
different sources either from debt or
directly from private equity investors
[music] in a way that they wouldn't have
previously. Even retail investors these
days can pretty easily access [music]
private markets. So the perks of
becoming a public company are not quite
as clearcut as they used to be.
>> So what's been done to change that?
Let's start with executive [music] pay.
The investment association has recently
rewritten their guidelines for
renumeration and we are seeing Footsie
100 pay grow [music] at a faster rate
than S&P 500 pay for CEOs and the gap
[music] does seem to be closing a little
bit. We are also really getting along
with improving the regulatory
environment and the listing environment
for new companies [music] coming to
market. And we are talking very
seriously across politics and across
[music] investment organizations about
increasing the demand for UK shares by
changing the [music] dynamics inside UK
tax rappers etc. The London Stock
Exchange kind of needs to get its
swagger back. There's a [music] lot of
negativity around it and that is
massively driven by the data, by the
facts, [music] but also a few successful
listings could really change the
narrative. And there are some, as the
exchanges CEO pointed out in October,
[music]
it's just that they don't always
influence the rankings.
>> One of our biggest was was the movement
of a Greek company where they
reinccorporated in the UK, relisted
their securities in London, and then
came straight into the Footsie 100. They
didn't need [music] new cash, so they
didn't have an IPO and therefore they
didn't count in those stats.
>> London still has a superb reputation as
a financial hub. We have one of the
biggest pools of institutional money in
the world and we [music] have this
infrastructure around what we do that is
globally known and globally respected.
We remain the biggest equity market in
Europe for example.
>> It is still the second biggest global
financial center next to New York on any
kind of survey that you care to look at.
A few recent and upcoming IPOs give
London some chances to prove itself. But
for now, these are green shoots when
what London needs most basically are
some massive trees.
>> If there is a multi-billion dollar
company that lists in London and the
shares perform well, then suddenly you
get a change in the narrative and then
suddenly bankers, companies, they are
looking at the London stock exchange in
a totally different way.